Motivation:

Citation latency analysis of Wikipedia articles on CRISPR has revealed that relevant publications can successfully be matched in the most important articles using publications' titles, DOIs, and PMIDs, and that many of these publications are highly relevant. Bibliometrics is interested in finding new sources and methods to delineate relevant literature for particular scientific fields or specific technological innovations, which Wikipedia may provide, but bibliometrics first needs to know if the findings of the CRISPR study also apply to other fields or subdomains of scientific research. Analysing citation latency can help bibliometrics glean an insight into general citation practices on Wikipedia. Additionally, while Wikidata offers a database to add, edit and link publications, even highly relevant publications only link to some articles (cf. https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q21508827). A complete citation network linking publications and articles could help populate Wikidata.

Questions:

1. How does citation latency differ depending on the field of research?
2. Are there extreme phenomena, i.e. very short or very long latencies (medium latency less interesting)?
3. Does citation latency correlate with a) social domain, b) scientific (sub)domain, c) controversiality of the research, d) timing, e) ...?

Approaches:

1. Only articles with a certain number of publications? (e.g. 10+)
    ->  total number of publications easy; minimum number of publications
        in revision more complicated (threshold vs. revision index/age of article)

2. Only articles that have existed for several years? (z.B. 10+)
    ->  especially relevant in relation to normalised citation latency

3. Only publications published after the article was created?
    ->  otherwise distortion due to normalisation (cf. 2)

4. Only publications matching certain criteria (cf. metrics in PUS-Paper)
    ->  considerably more effort for preliminary analysis; metrics might
        have to be adjusted from author to paper level

5. Only articles in Wiki-Sci-Tech-Corpus? Filter articles by more category?
    ->  only S&T, no top level differentiation between research fields
